docs/tutorials/arm64.rst, before:

.. _arm64:

Running Tutor on ARM-based systems
==================================

Tutor can be used on ARM64 systems, although no official ARM64 docker images are available. If you want to get started quickly, there is `an unofficial  community-maintained ARM64 plugin <https://github.com/open-craft/tutor-contrib-arm64>`_ which will set the required settings for you and which includes unofficial docker images. If you prefer not to use an unofficial plugin, you can follow this tutorial.

.. note:: There are generally two ways to run Tutor on an ARM system - using emulation (via qemu or Rosetta 2) to run x86_64 images or running native ARM images. Since emulation can be noticeably slower (typically 20-100% slower depending on the emulation method), this tutorial aims to use native images where possible.

Building the images
-------------------

Although there are no official ARM64 images, Tutor makes it easy to build the images yourself.

Start by :ref:`installing <install>` Tutor and its dependencies (e.g. Docker) onto your system.

.. note:: For Open edX developers, if you want to use the :ref:`nightly <nightly>` version of Tutor to "run master", install Tutor using git and check out the ``nightly`` branch of Tutor at this point. See the :ref:`nightly documentation <nightly>` for details.

Next, configure Tutor::

    tutor config save --interactive

Go through the configuration process, answering each question.

Then, build the "openedx" and "permissions" images::

    tutor images build openedx permissions

If you want to use Tutor as an Open edX development environment, you should also build the development image::

    tutor images build openedx-dev

From this point on, use Tutor as normal. For example, start Open edX and run migrations with::

    tutor local launch

Or for a development environment::

    tutor dev launch

Commit message:

feat: auto build "openedx-dev" on "dev launch"
To achieve that, we introduce a new IMAGES_BUILD_REQUIRED filter.

docs/tutorials/arm64.rst, after:

.. _arm64:

Running Tutor on ARM-based systems
==================================

Tutor can be used on ARM64 systems, although no official ARM64 docker images are available. If you want to get started quickly, there is `an unofficial  community-maintained ARM64 plugin <https://github.com/open-craft/tutor-contrib-arm64>`_ which will set the required settings for you and which includes unofficial docker images. If you prefer not to use an unofficial plugin, you can follow this tutorial.

.. note:: There are generally two ways to run Tutor on an ARM system - using emulation (via qemu or Rosetta 2) to run x86_64 images or running native ARM images. Since emulation can be noticeably slower (typically 20-100% slower depending on the emulation method), this tutorial aims to use native images where possible.

Building the images
-------------------

Although there are no official ARM64 images, Tutor makes it easy to build the images yourself.

Start by :ref:`installing <install>` Tutor and its dependencies (e.g. Docker) onto your system.

.. note:: For Open edX developers, if you want to use the :ref:`nightly <nightly>` version of Tutor to "run master", install Tutor using git and check out the ``nightly`` branch of Tutor at this point. See the :ref:`nightly documentation <nightly>` for details.

Next, configure Tutor::

    tutor config save --interactive

Go through the configuration process, answering each question.

Then, build the "openedx" and "permissions" images::

    tutor images build openedx permissions

If you want to use Tutor as an Open edX development environment, you should also build the development image::

    tutor images build openedx-dev # this will be automatically done by `tutor dev launch`

From this point on, use Tutor as normal. For example, start Open edX and run migrations with::

    tutor local launch

Or for a development environment::

    tutor dev launch
